it doesn't take long to install a Rain
Bird SST smart controller before you
start just make sure you have a few
things handy you'll need a phillips
screwdriver wire strippers and a hammer
if it's a new irrigation system you'll
also need to get some direct burial
valve control wire and watertight splice
connectors using drywall anchors is
optional
there are two major things to consider
when you decide where to mount your
controller it needs to be easily
accessible and it should be someplace
where it's easy to run wires to your
valves and weather sensor you'll also
want to make sure your controller is
within 5 feet of an AC outlet if you're
using the included power cord at least
15 feet from major appliances and air
conditioners your controllers weather
resistant case also lets you mount it
outdoors and plug it into any outdoor
electrical outlet it can be hardwired
using conduit to with assistance from
your local building department or a
licensed electrical contractor driver
screw into the surface where you want to
position the top of your controller
leaving a 1/8 inch gap between the head
and the wall use drywall anchors if
necessary hang the controller on the
exposed screw pop off the access cover
and drive a screw into the wall through
the center hole at the bottom of the
controller if this is a new installation
the next step is to wire up your valves
start your wiring by cutting a piece of
valve control wire long enough to reach
from the controller to the valve
notice that the valve wire has a number
of strands inside the white wire is the
one you'll typically connect to one of
the common terminals on your controller
each valve has two wires connect the
common wires from each valve to each
other and to the white strand from the
valve control wire using watertight
splice connectors connect the other wire
from each valve to a separate strand on
the control wire back at the controller
insert the white valve control wire into
the common terminal using a screwdriver
tip to push the tab above the terminal
makes inserting and removing strands
easier use the same technique to connect
each of the individual zone wires to
your controller you'll use that second
common terminal if you have another
valve control wire coming from an
additional valve manifold next mount
your smart weather sensor in an outdoor
location that gets the same kind of Sun
and rain exposure as your landscape a
knee or a pole that has clear
closer to the Sun and rain is ideal stay
away from shady trees that block rain as
well as areas near your roof that could
soak the sensor with runoff a location
that's within a 25-foot cable run of
your controller will let you use the
wire included with your sensor for
greater distances you can use up to 200
feet of 18 to 20 gauge solid wire
appropriate for outdoor use and purchase
separately once you've mounted your
weather sensor connect it to your
controller now you can plug the power
cord into the socket test the system by
turning the dial to each zone and
pressing the water Now button check that
the zone is watering then turn the dial
to the next zone and repeat until you've
tested all the zones you've connected if
a zone doesn't start watering after a
few seconds check your wiring for open
or misplace connections that wraps up
the installation of your Rain Bird SST
smart controller